what are the seven must-have pages on a
b2b business to business website
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner here at
webchoiceuk.com
and hosts the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show if you haven't done
so yet check out our weekly email where
we're sharing actionable marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides resources
bonuses and much much more each and
every monday to start your week off with
a bang
sign up today over at business growth
dot email so the seven must have pages
of a b2b website well this is taken from
data by looking at our own website
webchoiceuk.com and checking out our
analytics of the pages that are most
viewed by looking at many many different
client websites by speaking to other
marketers on the podcast and outside of
the podcast and by looking at many sites
and which pages often fall short so with
that said let's jump straight in all
right so let's kick it off starting
first and foremost with the home page so
on many many websites the home page is
going to be the majority shareholder
when it comes to your website traffic
it's going to be where most people visit
first and foremost so it needs to really
make an impact so things like loading
really quick under two second load speed
times really important now for websites
making sure as soon as someone lands on
your home page they can clearly see
exactly what you do
exactly how you help and then guide them
to either learn more or take the next
step so an example on the web choice
homepage we've got a clear headline
above the fold before you scroll in the
top hero area or banner area saying web
design seo and web development to grow
your business so a clear
valley proposition on what we do and how
we can help and then you've got two call
to actions under our headline for either
view our work to take you through to our
results our portfolio or straight away
the call to action to get a free quote
so that means a lot of people actually
are spending ads and even using their
home page as a landing page so a lot of
people direct traffic through
advertisement social media email and all
that good stuff seo
straight to their home page so it really
needs to as soon as someone lands on it
they need to know what you can do what's
in it for them and then how to either
contact you or learn more so that's
really really important if you're not
hitting that mark straight away
then you're probably losing business and
i really really advise you to go against
the classic we've been in business 30
years or we're award-winning all the
best in biz because ultimately your
customers your prospects your buyers do
not care about how great you are they
want to care what about what you can do
for them exactly right so let's scroll
down a bit
usually after you have the value prop
you have the headline you have some call
to actions then you might have
information on services so on web choice
we've got
examples of seo web design and
what we can offer in terms of services
and another call to action if people
want to get in touch then we dive a bit
deeper into some of those options and
the services we do then we have some
social proof so we've got some
accreditation some logos we've got a
strip a little banner of
clients that we're working with that
household names
a little bit more on kind of our web
design services so you can dive in a bit
more depth about what you do and what
you offer
and then towards the bottom of our home
page we've got some examples of our work
that link through to there and then a
link some links through to our blog and
then finally we've got the footer
section with another call to action if
people want to email us or call us and
then just some accreditations and then
finally at the bottom we've got our
footer navigation menu so if people want
to get quickly through to pages they can
do and it also helps with seo having
that site map at the bottom so people
can quickly navigate and find the page
that they need so to summarize your home
page is a massive piece of real estate
in fact a lot of people you'll find
won't always scroll down straight away
they want to see that value prop with
your headline understand what's in it
for them take that next action whether
that is requesting a quote booking a
demo speaking to sales or learning more
or checking out your work make sure it's
as easy as possible for people to take
that desired next step on your home page
next up we've got the results case
studies or in our case our portfolio
page this is actually the second viewed
most page on our own site and i know
it's similar on a lot of b2b sites too
with a bit of variation so the reason
this page is important is because it's a
chance to actually show you can deliver
what you say you can deliver on your
homepage value prop actually showing
some results so in our case we've got a
bunch of our most favorite our most
popular website so people can easily
click through to them but what you could
consider is perhaps your a product or a
service based industry and maybe you
have a selection of some great customer
stories some great results that you've
achieved and maybe you've got an image
of the impact maybe the percentage in
increase in roi or they spent this much
with us and they got this much in return
and maybe you have a thumbnail image
that someone can then click that
thumbnail image perhaps you've got six
to nine of those and that then opens a
detail page with an in-depth review of
the case study so perhaps it says look
this is the problem they came to us with
this is why they chose to work with us
this is the impact we had on the
organization and this is what results
are like now and why they recommend
maybe you've got a customer video where
the customer actually shares that story
maybe you've got a few quotes and then
maybe you've got a call to action like
at the bottom of our site
and in the top menu where people can
request a quote or book a demo or call
or speak to sales
so you're really sharing why people
chose to work with you the impact you
had and then guiding them to get in
touch with you nice and quickly on that
case study results or portfolio page
thirdly we've got pricing so how many
times have you had an inquiry a call-in
or a lead you've spoken to the prospect
perhaps you've even have a great
conversation they've got a problem you
can help with you believe your product
or your service can help them and then
it comes to the the question around
budget and they just don't have the
budget to work with you even if all the
stars align they'd still never be able
to afford your solution well this is
where your website can come in handy so
before they even call you or inquire
with you or book a demo you can share
your pricing packages so people can
either qualify themselves in or qualify
themselves out some of the worst things
that i see that i really don't recommend
is having a pricing page and then just
ramming people to speak to sales book
that demo and not even sharing anything
about your pricing because what you'll
find is you get you might get more
inbound leads but a lot of those leads
won't be qualified they just won't have
the money to deal with you and that's
going to waste the prospects time
perhaps annoy them and waste your sales
team time so it's just a no-win
situation so in our case for example
we've got a website pricing page but
this is our seo pricing page we have our
three most popular plans our most
popular plan is actually highlighted a
different color we've got a brief
outline of the features and then and the
goals and the specs and then we've got
an option at the bottom of each plan
to
speak to sales so discuss a plan
request a quote and as we scroll down on
the page we've got more detail so
basically above the fold we've got the
um three or four most popular plans as
you scroll down you see more detail
about the activities that's included so
if people want to go in depth they can
then we're talking about some results
we've achieved our own seo in our case
but you can talk about your company here
some more details so if people want the
in-depth analysis of exactly what we do
you've got drop down menus on that there
and then we've got a video so some
people are visual some people prefer
text this video actually breaks down in
our case how seo works from a to z so if
people want a visual they can do that
and then finally we've got some social
proof to back up our claims we've got
some client stories some reviews with
pictures about the actual work and
results achieved and again you could put
video summaries here so if you've got
case studies of customers that's really
really powerful again showing the
problem you they came to with how you
fixed it why they chose to work with you
and the results achieved that's really
really good and then call to actions so
encouraging people to actually take that
next step and get in touch with you and
at number four we've got the service
pages so this isn't going to be the time
to brag and show how many different
thousands of features you've got but
more importantly break down the problem
that customers often come to you with
how are you going to fix the problem how
are you going to make their life better
or how you can make their business
better with your product or your
solution
so in our case we've got services drop
down and then we've got several drop
downs off each one to go into more depth
but perhaps you've served different
locations or you've got different
variations of products depending on size
of organizations and the reason to have
several
product or service detail pages is
useful as well is not only is it going
to give more info to your prospective
customer but it's going to help for seo
so having a detailed page for each
location served product offer or service
offered is going to help you rank better
on google so if we quickly dive into in
our case our seo service detail page
we have a quick headline with how we
help we've got a video summary
and then we're just breaking down kind
of the value proposition of what we
bring when we do an seo project we've
got some infographics we've got some
customer reviews again for social proof
as you scroll down some testimonials and
then we've got clear call to actions so
people can easily get in touch as and
when they're ready to speak to sales and
then at the bottom of the page which you
can weave in on your service pages this
is also good for pricing pages to handle
objections we answer common questions so
if there's common questions you get from
prospects each and every week speak to
your sales team understand what those
questions are and then get a faq section
this is great like i say for your
pricing page to handle those objections
push people to the next step and
likewise on your service pages handle
those common questions you get so it's
going to save your sales team time put
people's mind at rest and then prompt
them to actually get in touch with you
as and when they're ready to do so at
number five we have the about us page
and surprisingly for a lot of sites i've
come across ourselves included the about
us page actually takes up quite a big
market share when it comes to one of the
most common pages people like to check
out
so i think one mistake that b2b
companies make and companies in general
is they use it as a massive page just
brag about how great they are like i was
talking about on home page headlines
we've been in business for this many
years won this many awards i mean it's
okay to mention that but don't emphasize
it
one unique approach you can take is
actually to check your or share your
founder story so in our case we just
give a quick summary of why we started
how we started who we serve in a very
quick paragraph on our company so
nothing too complex or detailed we don't
want to bore prospects we want to give a
quick snapshot of the story
why we started and who we serve and then
straight away we're jumping into the
value prop that we can provide to
businesses what we help them achieve and
then typical problems that people are
going to come to us with
and also we're sharing a quick snapshot
of your team which you can do because
sometimes i'm sure you'll have prospects
where they'll ask kind of who's in your
team so we're sharing a bit of detail
about the owners we've also got a
section on useful resources so if people
want to check out our podcasts our blog
and want to learn more about pricing
we've got quick links to those or if
they want to actually get in touch we
make it nice and easy to do so and then
finally we've got a summary video and
that's the great thing if you've got
your own podcast just like we have we
just chuck in these videos which are
really relevant so people can understand
in our case how much does it cost to
build a website or seo strategy
and then finally like you'll find a
common theme in most of these pages
we're leveraging social proof so most
pages i encourage you to weave in
testimonials client stories reviews
ratings just to give confidence that
you're going to do a great job and then
guide people to take that next step and
to get in touch with you we are near the
finish line so number six out of seven
we've got the contact page or this might
be your book a demo request a call
request a demo page so this is possibly
one of the most important pages after
your home page to actually capture that
all important sales lead for your sales
team so one of the first things is
having your inquiry form or your demo
request form above the fold so what that
means before people scroll straight away
they can fill in your form that applies
to both the desktop view and if you're
watching you'll see on the mobile view
we've got our form on web choice
straight away so people don't have to
scroll or mess around
and
with the form with your contact inquiry
form
i recommend only including the crucial
field so in our case we asked for name
email phone number how did you hear
about us so we know which marketing
channel they came through we've got a
budget field so people can give us a
recommended budget we've even got a link
to our pricing page if people want to
check what pricing range we start to
help qualify them in or out and then a
quick
summary of the project that they're
looking for a capture form so capture
basically helps you reduce spam which i
recommend because if you're marketing
your site you'll find you'll get a lot
of spam enquiries so google recapture
form and then the call to action instead
of just submit we've actually got get my
free quote and that's highlighted in
orange is the button to submit the form
so yours might be request my
consultation call or get my free demo or
book my taylor demo today so rather than
just submit it's actually prompting them
what that next step clearly is in the
call to action at the end of the form as
a button
and then one thing
that i recommend that's a bit different
is having a testimonial or a review next
to your form so some people might have
anxiety before they actually fit in your
form as well as this sounds a lot of
people will come to your contact page
but they will not convert into a lead so
this actually reduces the risk
what you can do is share a testimonial a
client story of literally copy and paste
that testimonial with their image of
them
the problem they came to you with again
how you helped what life is like now on
the results you've brought to them
include their name their company that
picture or if you've got a video
testimonial even better place it right
next to your inquiry field in query form
and then that's gonna most likely help
you see a small uptick in the amount of
leads you get
one alternative to a inquiry form is
using a calendar booking tool like chili
piper where you can literally
the customer can choose the date the
time that they want to speak to a sales
rep and that goes to the right sales rep
instantly so that's an alternative to
get b2b meetings booked in straight away
apart from that just a bit more social
proof on the page so in our case we've
got accredited brands brands that we
work with and then if people want to
give us a call or if people want to
email us instead of filling out a form
they've got the option there to do so
which you can add too and lastly at
number seven we've got perhaps one of
the most neglected pages i ever see on
websites it's the thank you page this is
actually a really really important page
firstly because it means if you're
running ads if you're running marketing
you're doing seo you're driving traffic
to your site you can actually link your
thank you page to your google analytics
or your analytics software so you can
successfully track conversions and then
measure the amount of inquiries you're
actually getting for your form or your
demo request form and but most
importantly a lot of sites i've been on
in the past especially when i've filled
out their form to speak to a sales rep
and it's i've clicked submit and it's
just refreshed the page so i have no
idea if the form has actually gone
through and if someone's going to be in
touch with me i'm just left confused
wondering if a sales rep is going to get
in touch with me which is really bad
first experience of a company
so making a great thank you page
is a smart idea because first of all you
can thank people getting in touch
then you can actually tell them if you
want to if you want to really leverage
trust
how long it's going to be until sales
reps in touch in our case we say thanks
very much for getting in touch we're
looking forward to chatting you with you
sam or tom will be in touch within 24
hours most of the time we're in touch
within a few minutes as we've got
inquiries linked to our smartphones
alternatively you can give people the
option to call you so you can give a
number to call if they want to speak to
someone straight away then we've got a
funny gif so we've actually got i think
leonardo dicaprio raising a grass of
champagne but yours could be a someone
popping a champagne someone cheering or
something different and then finally on
that thank you page we've got here are
some useful resources you might enjoy so
in our case we've linked our videos to
our youtube channel maybe you want to
link to articles to a podcast to some
guides so really giving someone the best
possible experience as soon as they've
taken the time to fill in our form and
saying look this is how long it's going
to be before we're in touch if you want
to phone us quickly you can do so here's
a funny gif and here's some resources so
they're already thinking well this
brand's taking an effort to try and
please me i'm really excited to speak to
their sales team and see if they can
help me out and there we have it i hope
you enjoyed this breakdown of the seven
must-have pages of a b2b website as
always if you found this show useful a
quick rating on your podcast channel
would be much appreciated or if you're
on youtube a quick subscribe i'd be
really really thankful for and with that
i shall catch you on the next episode
cheers